So let's talk about class.
versus object.
Why is an class? What is an object?
Mostly people say that everything in the world is an object and there is a glass for it.
So let us understand what us mean.
See classes.
Coming from classification.
So if you take anything in the world you can say that this belongs to so-and-so class so you can categorize
everything.
Yes.
So if you take a group of people at a college then you can say that these students belongs to computer
science.
So this is a class of computer science and this student belongs to electronics so this is the class of electronics.
So you're classifying based on the subject or the course they are going through. it means that classification
is based on the criteria that you are adopting.
So you are grouping set of students based on their course.
So does a class for computer science and the class for electronics.
But if you see the students both electronic and these are students only, so students are again a class.
There's is one of the classification.
These are the students.
These are the employees.
this is one classification categorization, then both students and employees are human beings.
So yes again there is a classification, these are human beings and these are birds and these are
reptiles.
So there are many classes.
So classification is based on some criteria or the common things that you find in them.
Right.
So we define classes in our daily life.
Any 4 wheel vehicle in which there is a driver and some people are sitting at the back or beside
the driver then we say it's a car.
If that are groups loaded at the back then we say it's a truck.
So this is the classification depend on the property we are defining that this is a truck this is a car and
and both are vehicle again, so vehicle is again a class.
So in this way, if I take examples like human beings human being is a class.
So there's a class human and you are an object of human being class.
and myself as an object of human being class and a class car.
So BMW X1 I guess it's a car and Camry Toyota is also a car.
So this is an object of a car.
This is an object of a car.
This is a class, so looking at the objects we classify like looking at me you can you can say he is a human.
So what I'm, I'm  a object and what you said human.
That is a class looking at this camry.
You said it's a car.
So this is an object.
And this is the definition that you're using.
You are using the class name.
So class is a definition and object is an instance.
Now.
Let us take example, suppose a civil engineer has made a plan of a house.
These are rooms in that house
so he made a plan of a house. this in entrance of house.
now a civil engineer has made this  plan.
So suppose the civil engineer is making this plan for making quarters or houses for the employees of some
organization.
So some organization is making a colony or courthouse for their employees.
Then they have approved this plan.
Then based on this plan all the houses are constructed.
There are many houses constructed based on this plan.
Some companies provide housing facilities for their employees so they will have some cargo or apartments
or independent houses or apartments.
All the apartments will be similar only they follow the same design.
So design is one and these are the houses or the apartments or the flats that are based on this
design.
So this design or the definition is nothing but class and these are objects these are objects.
These houses are constructed based on this one.
So what is this.
This is nothing but blueprint of this object.
So this will be having all those things that are defined here in the plan so that's it so civil engineer
will make this one.
And based on this construction is done.
Now let's take another example suppose an electronics engineer is making a design of a fingerprint scanner
and for fingerprint scanner he made a design and this is a circuit diagram just imagine that is the
circuit diagram.
OK.
Some ices are there on this one.
So he made some circuit diagram for this one.
So there's a circuit diagram.
Now this is a thumb scanner or fingerprint scanner.
And this is another fingerprint scanner.
And this is another fingerprint scanner
all  these fingerprint scanners are based on this design.
So this is a class or this is a blueprint of a fingerprint scanner.
So what all these are? these are objects, these are all objects of that design.
Based on that design.
So every engineer does some paperwork or designing work and based on that design the manufacturing
is done following that design.
So when you make a product, that product will be having all those things that are there in the design
and you can then make many products based on that design. a car company will design a new car.
Then they will manufacture many cars based on that design.
So all those cars are object and the design that company is holding with it is a class. that's it.
So Same way we also want to write a class and create objects in our program.
So how do you define a class.
What will be there in the class.
What do you will use.
Here we use ices and boards and pins.
Then in the house example there will be walls and pillars and roof then, what's will be in your class
in our classes.
What will be there.
I'll show you. our classes.
See our product, that is software is related to computation its related to computation.
So we are making a classes that are more related to computation so suppose I want to have a class for
rectangle.
Then I will see a rectangle class
then what it will contain.
So as we are related to computation needs data.
So we'll have only two things, data and the functions.
So our class will contain data and functions.
So data is called as property and function is called as behavior.
So what is the data required for rectangle so rectangle will have length and breadth.
So we will have a data that is float length and float.
breadth
this is about data.
Then what are the function computations we can do.
We can find area of a rectangle and this should give us the float result.
And we can find perimeter of a rectangle this also gets a float result.
we can find diagonal  of a rectangle, means there is a diagram of a rectangle.
This also gets floated result and so on.
So these are set of functions and this is the data.
So if you say data and the functions so now anything in the world you can define in terms of data and
its function if it is useful for you.
So this a class, this is the class.
I have not written a complete class I have not written the detail.
So this is more abstract, abstract.
Now
I will create an object rectangle,
r one, r two, r three.
So these are objects, what this r1will have, length breadth and area perimetre and so on and so functions
r2 will also have length breadth and these functions.
r3, all these objects will have samething like of fingerprint scanner was having
everything what was there in their design and a house was having all the rooms and leaving the hall everything
what was there in their design.
So same way this rectangular object is having everything whatever it is given in this design. that's
it.
This is how you write the classes, we can write down the class for anything in the world.
So mostly what type of things we deal in our programming for that we can see it as a object unfold file
we can  define it as a class and based on the class we can create an object and use it.
So in programming we define this class and keep it, and in our program, actually program, let us say main function
and other set of functions.
they will be using these objects and they will be using these objects so were to write the class, shall
we write it somewhere else and use it.
Yes.
If you want. mostly in program we write in the same program with the class and there only we will use it.
this is our practise, otherwise you can write on some set of classes and keep them in some header file
files and you can include the header file and used objects of a class.
So defining a class is different and creating its object and using it as different.
So let us say this I am doing this inside the main function.
and This is a defined here.
So mostly as a programmer we write class on the main function there only, get confused little bit.
But it's not like that, like design separate so who will have that design engineer will have
the design and he will construct houses right everything about the design engineer knows and based on that
the houses are constructed and a electronic engineer  will have the design and the manufacturing of
the product is done based on that design.
So designing work is different and manufacturing and using the devices based on that design is different.
So same way writing a class is a different work, using a class is a different work if you mix them
then you confuse Why the hell I am writting all these things, no writing the class complete the design
then use them.
So that's all I have given you the difference between class and an object.
So we have defined a class based on the data and the functions.
And here we create object and use it.
So the next video I'll show you the syntax how we define the class how to create object how do you use
members of an object.